Good afternoon.
My name is Ricci Adams.
I'm an engineer on Apple's social
software team and this is session 115,
Publish & Subscribe with RSS.
Now,
as you may have guessed from the title,
we're going to be
talking about RSS today.
And there's three things
I'm going to tell you.
First, I'm going to give you a brief
overview of what RSS is.
And then I'm going to tell you some of
the pitfalls that you may run into when
trying to implement RSS in your software.
And finally,
I'm going to tell you about some
of the great new technology we
have in Mac OS X Leopard that's
going to make your lives easier.
So first the overview.
You're probably all
familiar with blogging.
It's one of the hot new
phenomenons on the web.
And so how it works is
there's a web application.
Now this could be a web
application that you've installed,
something like MovableType or WordPress.
Or it could be a service
you're subscribed to like
Vox.com or TypePad or Blogger.
And how this works is you log into
the service and you write a post.
Say a post about attending WWDC.
And then when you hit the submit button,
that web application is going to
generate an HTML resource which your
readers can then browse to using
Safari or another web browser and read.
How this works is you log into
the service and you write a post,
say a post about attending WWDC.
And then when you hit the submit button,
that web application is going to
generate an HTML resource which your
readers can then browse to using
Safari or another web browser and read.
So instead of this,
the web application will also publish
an XML resource in the RSS or other
formats and then it becomes much,
much easier to read.
And so you have applications,
Apple applications for example,
like Safari RSS,
the new Mail RSS or Quartz Composer,
and there's also your applications such
as NetNewsWire or Mac Reporter that
can read this XML file and
display it however you want.
So you're probably here today
because you're interested in
using RSS in your application.
And you know what?
That's great.
But there's three
things you need to know.
First, you're going to have to know and
you're going to have to parse the feed.
And then you're going to have to
interpret the contents of each entry.
And finally,
you're going to have to difference
the feeds over time in order to see
what's new and what's been updated.
So let's talk about parsing.
You know, we use the term "RSS" as a
generalized term to mean web feeds.
But there's actually four formats
that you have to be concerned with.
There's RSS 0.9, RSS 1.0, RSS 2.0,
and Atom.
And if you want your application
to be able to read a good number
of web feeds out on the web,
you're going to have to support
all four of these applications.
So that might be a little bit
more work than you thought,
but it's still not bad.
But there's more.
Because in addition
to these four formats,
a bunch of the time,
you're going to encounter invalid XML.
Sometimes a feed might be
missing an ending element,
or there could be an entity
that's not part of the XML spec.
And since everybody can use
HTML in their feed post,
you're going to also
encounter invalid HTML.
So you have to worry about that, too.
Well,
So you've actually got the feed now.
You've been able to figure
out what part of the file
pertains to different entries.
But you actually have to
interpret those entries.
Let's say the author of a web feed wanted
to use an ampersand in his feed's body.
Well, you know,
there are six different ways
to represent that ampersand.
Sometimes your XML parser
can handle this for you.
Other times you're going to
have to make a hard choice.
Do you want to singly escape the entry?
Do you want to doubly escape it?
It's a tough call to make.
There's also differencing.
You see,
the RSS protocol isn't really dynamic.
You can't say, "Hey, feed server,
can you send me all the feeds since
last Sunday?" It doesn't work like that.
In the RSS file,
there's only a list of the last entries.
And so what you have to do is every
single time you download that file,
you have to store what you've downloaded.
The next time you download it,
you have to take the new version and you
have to compare it to the old version.
And this would be simple if every
entry had a unique identifier.
Unfortunately, that's not the case.
They're not guaranteed to have those.
And so really, it becomes quite hard.
In fact,
trying to do all of this is kind of
a giant hoop that you have to jump
through when in the first place you
just wanted to be able to read a feed.
So wouldn't it be nice if there
was a framework in the system
that would do all this for you?
Thank you.
Today I'm proud to
announce that there is.
It's going to be shipping to your
customers in Leopard and it's available
as a preview on your developer DVD.
The name of the framework is PubSub and
we're going to be talking about it
for the remainder of the session.
So first let's talk about the
features of the new PubSub framework.
Well as you can probably
gather from the name,
it both publishes and it subscribes.
So we're going to be talking a bit more
about the publication part in a bit.
For now let's focus on subscriptions.
What can it subscribe to?
What can it parse?
Well, all four of those things
I mentioned previously.
It's going to be able
to handle RSS 0.9 feeds,
RSS 1.0 feeds, 2.0, and Atom.
And it's even going to be able
to handle malformed feeds.
So you just point it at a feed,
it parses it,
and it's going to take this and pull
it down into a common data model,
which you can then access using
Objective-C classes and methods.
And it's not just restricted to the
attributes defined in the RSS and Atom
spec because we're also going to provide
support for XML extension elements.
And what this means is there's
a bunch of extensions right now
that you could find in RSS feeds.
For example,
iTunes has a podcasting extension.
There's the Yahoo Media extensions.
FeedBurner.com has their
own set of extensions.
And we're not going to
throw this data away.
We're going to provide a
way for you to get at it.
So those are some of the main features.
Let's talk about the
architecture of PubSub.
And I'm going to explain this
from the perspective of a user who
wants to subscribe to a web feed,
say Slashdot, in mail.
So we have MailRSS, we have SafariRSS,
and hopefully your application.
Hopefully you pay a little bit more
for a graphic designer than just this.
And they all link against
the PubSub framework.
Now there's also a fourth
application on the system,
and that's the PubSub agent.
And so when the user goes
to subscribe to Slashdot,
through the PubSub framework,
Mail's going to send an
IPC message to the agent.
And the agent's going to be
responsible for all network I.O.
So the agent then goes out to the web,
grabs the feed, parses the feed,
and stores that in a database.
Next,
the agent is going to send a notification
to all clients of PubSub saying,
"Hey, I have this new feed, slash dot."
Mail's going to then
pick up on that and say,
oh, my feed's been parsed.
It's now in the database.
Let me grab that.
And then it grabs it from the database
and you can display it how you want.
So the advantage of this architecture
is all the data is shared.
So if you've subscribed to the same
feed in both MailRSS and SafariRSS,
and say you go to do a manual download
in Safari and there's five new entries,
those entries are going to appear at the
same time in Safari or Mail or at the
same time in Safari in your application.
And the other advantage is that
we're only downloading the feed once,
so it reduces network traffic.
So now that I've talked
about the architecture,
we've made a few cool demos
that we want to show you now.
And I'd like to introduce my coworker,
Jens Alfke, who's going to come up on
stage and present those to you.
Jens?
Okay, let's see, we need demo machine C.
We have our magic switch ready.
We're on the correct machine there.
We're live.
OK, hi.
So I've got two applications
to show right now,
two simple little apps.
And the first one of these is
already on your developer CD in the
developer examples PubSub folder.
It's what else but a
very simple news reader,
the obvious thing to
build with this framework.
So it's got a pretty typical layout.
On the left here,
you see there's a list of the
feeds that have been subscribed to.
We can click on a feed
and see the articles here.
We're seeing the entry titles, the dates,
the authors, if they had authors,
and the read and unread state.
We can click on any entry in here
and see the contents down below.
There's not a whole lot
more to it than that.
The other application
Does a little bit more.
So we want to give you the idea that this
is not just about building yet another
newsreader because we have a whole
lot of newsreaders on the OS already.
We have some really good ones.
Both Apple and other developers
have written really good ones.
So what's more interesting is to take
this kind of content that you can
get now really easily from the web
and do interesting stuff with it.
So as an example,
one of these feeds I've subscribed to
here is this iTunes new releases feed.
So we can look at these and see little
pictures of the album covers and
what the artist name is and so on.
And we can kind of scroll
through the list and see stuff.
But as an example,
I built an application that
specialized for viewing this feed,
both the iTunes new music
feed and the eMusic,
which is another music store feed.
So it accesses the same data.
In fact,
it's the same data that I'm using.
So it's the same records in the database
that the other application is showing.
But this one does a number of
interesting things with it.
First of all,
this is a core data application and does
all the kind of fun core data things
like filtering things down using filter
view or sorting in different directions.
So it's got its own persistent
data store based on core data,
but this integrates really easily
with the persistent data store
from the Pub/Sub framework.
And synchronizing between
the two is really easy.
So as new information arrives from the
web and goes into the Pub/Sub framework,
this application gets notified,
grabs those entries and adds
corresponding entries to
its own core data database.
And its database is based
on the kind of metadata that
you would expect for albums.
So it's based on the artist name,
the album name, the genre.
And so we can do all kinds of interesting
filtering on the Pub/Sub framework.
So we can filter by artist name,
we can filter by genre,
so we can just get--
If we had any tech note, nope.
All alternative, et cetera.
And the way that it does this
is by looking at the additional
XML elements that are in the feed.
The iTunes music store feed,
in addition to having the human
readable HTML content that shows you
the artist and picture and so on,
it also has some invisible XML elements
there in the entries which this
application goes and tweezers out and
uses those to put into its database.
So its database is keyed off
of things like artist name.
It also grabs data like the music clip.
So we have a nice UI in here
so it can-- if we had audio,
you can just listen to little
clips of the album right
here in the browser itself.
And that's it.
Can we switch back to the slides please?
Oh.
Can we switch back to the slides?
Thank you.
Thank you, Jens, for that fine demo.
So now that you've seen the
NewsReader application that we built,
I'm going to talk about
how we built that.
So you see here a screenshot
of the NewsReader application.
And the first thing that you
need to know is to use PubSub,
you're going to need a PS client.
And PS Client is going to be an instance
that is tied to your bundle's identifier.
So PS Client,
you'll use that to subscribe to feeds,
to unsubscribe to feeds.
And speaking of feeds,
each one of those is
represented by a PS Feed object.
So using the PS Feed object,
you can get the feed's title,
you can get the last time it was updated,
and more importantly,
you can get a list of its entries,
which we use PS Entry for that.
So PS Client, PS Feed, and PS Entry.
Let's look at a code example
that uses these three.
So first you need to get your PS Client.
And you make a call into PSClient
application client and that's a
convenience method that's going to
return you your PSClient that's key to
your application's bundle identifier.
Once you have that,
you can subscribe to a feed.
So we'll use NSURL, URL with string,
get an NSURL and then tell the client,
"Hey, I want to add a feed with this
URL." It'll return to you a PS feed.
So now you can do stuff with
that PS feed like get its title.
You can also get its entries.
Like the below example, get its entries,
get an enumerator, enumerate over them,
and then get the title of each entry.
So going back to the demo application,
in the bottom right-hand corner,
you saw the actual content of each entry.
And in our API,
we use PSContent to represent this.
Well, you might ask,
Why not use an NSString?
Why use a separate object?
Well, the answer is that in
the RSS and Atom formats,
content can either be plain
text or it can be HTML.
So here's an Atom example,
content type text, "Hi mom and dad." Now,
the author of this feed is intending
for this to be displayed as plain text.
You can also say content type
HTML and then of course you'd have
to doubly escape your entities,
"Hi mom and dad." But the thing is,
you don't need to worry
about this because PS content
is going to do it for you.
We have a plain text string accessor,
we have an HTML string accessor,
and whatever you want,
we're just going to handle
that conversion on the fly.
So, for a code example,
Let's take one of the PS entries
and let's take its summary
and put it into a text field.
Let's take its content and
put it into a web view.
So here we have a PS feed and a PS entry
and we've gotten those previously.
Now we're going to get the summary.
So we call the summary method on
psEntry that returns us a psContent.
Now we can call plaintext string on that.
And now we have a plain text NSString so
we can shove it into an NS text field.
Next we want to get the actual content,
which will probably be in HTML,
and put it into a web view.
So here you see how we're doing that.
We say entry content,
that returns us the PS content.
Call HTML string now and then we
can just put that into a web view.
And again, it doesn't matter what
was in the original feed.
If it originally was in plain text
and you want it to be in HTML,
we'll handle it for you.
So in addition to PS content,
there's two more classes
I'm going to discuss.
We're going to talk about authors now.
So in the RSS and Atom formats,
there's a wide range of how you
can display author information.
So the top example is the easiest case.
Author John Doe, just the author's name.
The next example has both the author's
name and the author's email address.
And the final example is from
Atom and you can see the Atom
specification breaks it out into three.
So there's the author's name,
the author's email address,
and the author's homepage.
So instead of just providing this
to you as an NSString and making
you parse out the bit you want,
we're going to use the PS Author class,
which has a name accessor,
an email accessor, and a URL accessor.
In addition,
we're going to provide the capability
to link PS Authors to AB person
objects from Address Book Framework.
Today we're going to discuss enclosures.
And you might not exactly
know what an enclosure is,
but if you've ever used a
podcast or listened to one,
or if you've ever viewed a photo cast,
you are actually using enclosures.
So you have your RSS resource
on the web server.
And in addition to this,
in the case of a podcast,
you're also going to have MP3 files or
AAC files for each one of your episodes.
And if you look in that RSS file,
You're going to see
something like the following:
rel type enclosure,
the size of the enclosure in bytes,
the mime type,
and an actual link to that.
And so let's say you're
trying to build a podcasting
application with our framework.
Well, you're going to use
the psEnclosure class.
And as you can see there, we have URL,
we have the size in bytes,
and we have its mime
type that you can get at.
So these are our six classes.
In summary, let's go over them again.
We have PS Client,
which you'll use to add subscriptions
and remove subscriptions.
PS Client has an array of PS Feeds,
which represent the feeds
you're subscribed to.
And then PS Feeds have PS entries.
There's also PS Author for
dealing with author information,
PS Content for the content,
and PS Enclosure for enclosures.
And that is the
subscription API of PubSub.
Next up is Jens, who's going to discuss
the publication side.
Okay, I have the clicker.
So we don't just let you
subscribe to RSS feeds,
we let you actually publish feeds.
And this is a little kind of broader,
more bleeding edge, vaguer,
so I'm going to approach this.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to answer a
couple of questions.
First, you might be asking why.
Why would I want to publish stuff?
What's this going to do for me?
Then, assuming you accept that, well,
how?
How do I use the API?
What's the architecture like?
Then, where can I publish stuff to?
What kind of servers,
what kind of protocols
are we talking about?
And last,
I'm going to talk a little bit about who,
by which I mean access control.
As we'll see,
some of the information that you want
to publish may not be world readable.
You may not want everyone to be able
to see your address book that you're
publishing or something like that.
So first, why?
First reason is kind of the obvious one,
personal publishing.
And blogging is kind of the
obvious example of that.
And there's the famous quote,
freedom of the press is
limited to those who own one.
And at least in many countries now,
that means pretty much anybody because
you can go and set up your own free
blog at any number of different
sites and start publishing your
own important commentary to the world.
So you could publish anything.
Blogging, podcasting, of course.
You can actually have audio data
or music that you can publish.
Photocasting, like iPhoto does.
Flickr also has feeds like that.
Video casting.
There are, in fact,
podcasts now that include video
content that you can watch on
your iPod or on your computer.
And next year, I'm sure they'll be
announcing smell-o-casting.
Be afraid.
So beyond blogging or all of these
things which are kind of one-to-many,
like I am taking this content and putting
it out in public for the world to see,
there are some more applications
for this that are more two-way,
they're more collaborative.
In the future,
everyone will be famous for 15 people.
These 15 people,
this mutual admiration society,
may well want to be able to
publish things to each other,
share information.
So small group,
many-to-many content publishing.
This is not probably the way that
we're going to have many thousands
of people mailing lists working,
but you can do some really
interesting stuff with this.
There are two different approaches.
There's sort of a centralized and
a decentralized way of doing it.
First one,
we have a shared read/write store.
And in our diagram,
we've got a couple clients that want
to be exchanging data with each other.
In the middle, we have an Atom store,
by which I mean a server that is
using the Atom publishing protocol
for publishing information.
And each of the clients makes
a connection to that server
and is publishing information.
And they can actually be
publishing data to the same feed,
and they're also simultaneously
subscribed to that feed.
So each of them is seeing the things
that the other people are doing,
as well as the things that they put in.
Other people can modify data
that one person has put in.
So this is nice if you happen to have
an Atom store and most of the blogging
services now support the Atom API.
We happen to be supporting
it in Leopard server,
but you may not always
have that available.
So the decentralized approach is done,
one approach that's being looked up
by a lot of people is cross-subscribed
feeds where again we have three clients.
But we don't have a shared server.
Instead, each client is sort of one way
or another publishing a feed.
And they might be publishing
it with personal web sharing.
They might happen to have a
spare web server somewhere that
they can go and toss up the
XML data to-- something like that.
So each client then is publishing
their own information into
this feed that they own.
And then each client is subscribed
to all of the other clients' feeds.
So in effect, we get the same behaviors
in the first case,
where the data that each client
publishes becomes visible to
the other clients as well.
This obviously is not going
to scale terribly well because
it has this N squared problem.
But for small groups and especially
on local networks where you know
that the group size is not too big,
the bandwidth is really high,
the latency is low,
this is actually pretty attractive.
So reason number three for
doing publishing is data flow.
And there's a good quote from this by
one of the architects of the internet,
by which I mean, of course,
Ted Stevens of Alaska.
"The internet is a series of tubes."
A brilliant metaphor.
So use a different metaphor.
Web 2.0,
a lot of this whole hype is about
using websites as applications,
not as this individual,
isolated thing that you
go to in your browser,
but an application that
can do stuff for you.
And that has APIs so
that other applications,
whether local or remote,
can access that data
and do stuff with it.
So these APIs were, of course,
in their infrastructure using
HTTP as the function call mechanism.
And fundamental operators in
HTTP are POST for creating
a new piece of information,
GET for retrieving that information,
PUT for replacing an existing
piece of information's content,
and DELETE for making something go away.
In particular, this way of looking at it
has become widely known as
the REST architectural style.
So if we have these applications
up on the web with APIs,
you can sort of look at
a feed as a data pipe,
a tube that you can set up from
one point to another point or from
one point to many different points.
And the entries are these little
cylinders with stuff inside that
go shooting through these tubes.
And so you can use this as a wiring
model for connecting different servers,
different sites,
different applications together.
There are several startups that
have been exploring this space.
RSS Bus is explicitly
doing it with RSS feeds,
which is pretty interesting.
KnowNow is another company that's
been doing this for a couple of years,
and they've been doing some really
interesting work with how to do this
in a real-time or near-real-time way.
And then IBM has actually been doing
a lot of interesting stuff with this.
They have a good quote.
"An enterprise service bus is
a pattern of middleware that
unifies and connects services,
applications,
and resources within a business."
The Service Bus is a pattern
of middleware that unifies
and connects services,
applications, and resources.
If you think about all these
different services that you might use,
whether on your machine,
on local machines, on the internet,
websites like Flickr, blogs,
all this kind of stuff,
you can think about ways of
plugging things together,
of passing things on to other people,
of using them in different ways.
You can think about passing data
from one to another using feeds by
having these entities both publishing
and subscribing information.
So after all this hand waving,
let's have an actual demo,
show you some real stuff.
Ricci and I put this demo
together a couple of months
ago to impress some executives.
We didn't want to do something
with just text because that's
kind of boring and so we thought,
okay, iPhones, done photos already,
but what if we made
Photo Booth do casting?
So we have Booth casting.
[Transcript missing]
And just like normal photo booth,
we can take pictures with it.
All the interest of science.
Okay.
Now, when I look at this picture,
there's a new button
here called Boothcast.
So I can actually mark this
picture to be published.
And now I can run this
PhotoWatcher application
So I'm subscribed to my own machine here,
so my picture just showed up down here.
But I'm also subscribed
to Ricci's machine.
In fact, I can go here and look.
This is using Bonjour to show me all
of the other clients on the local
network that are running booth casting.
So if Ricci now takes a picture.
I have a slight issue here.
Oh, technical difficulties.
Don't tell the audience.
Just work around it.
OK, I'll distract them by taking
another picture myself.
So let's pick a different effect.
Glow, I like glow.
Looks good on you.
Plank.
And over in the photo watcher,
if all goes according to plan,
It will drop into place, right?
Oh, yeah.
You need to publish.
Duh.
See, it's a privacy control.
This is a feature.
You don't want these dorky pictures
getting published unless you actually
tell it that you want to publish them.
It's not a bug.
So now that I'm sharing it, it shows up.
OK,
so that could all be smoke and mirrors.
It's on the same machine.
So if-- So go ahead and
show them the RSS feed.
Yeah, OK.
So the way this works is,
like this being the RSS session,
we're actually publishing this as a feed.
And I can view this just in Safari RSS.
You got pictures here?
Just click on the photos
and you can get each one.
Oh, right, because they're enclosures.
So it's just a regular feed.
We're using the Atom enclosure element.
To point to the pictures
which are also being served,
it's the same Apache server that's
used for personal web sharing.
And so we subscribe to the
feeds from the other machines in
this PhotoWatcher application.
And when a new item appears,
we download the picture for it
and it shows up in the window.
Since we're using Bonjour,
we can actually,
in addition to just broadcasting the
fact that we're running this application,
it can also broadcast the
modification date of the feed.
And that is propagated
pretty much in real time,
within a couple of seconds.
So when a picture is published by
anybody else out on the network,
this application will detect
that there's a new picture,
fetch the new feed,
and display it in a couple of seconds.
So unfortunately I thought I was going to
get to display some fine photos for you.
A slight issue here
with the video camera,
so Jens, back to you.
Oh well.
So back to the slides please.
Okay, down to how.
Let's look at how this actually works.
The good news is that the
publishing API is pretty simple.
It's really just like subscribing,
just in reverse.
So I'll take an example.
The user of your application
has just typed in an
incredibly important blog post,
and they want to get it published.
So you will grab this
text out of the text view,
and you wrap it up in a PSContent object.
The same class that Ricci
was telling you about,
just now you're actually
creating one from nowhere and
stuffing the text into it.
The PSContent then goes
into a new PSPublishedEntry.
PSPublishedEntry is a
subclass of PSEntry.
You can think of it as
being the mutable subclass,
sort of like NSMutableArray.
So you can create one of these,
and then you can actually
start putting content into it,
setting all the metadata, the title,
et cetera, et cetera.
The entry you then put
into a PSPublished feed.
Again, this is a subclass of PSFeed where
you specify where to put the data,
where it gets uploaded to,
what the title of the feed is, et cetera.
But you might not just have text.
Finally, all the stuff now goes
into the PubSub database,
the persistent store that we have.
But you might not just
be publishing text.
If this is a podcast,
then you might have this
audio file sitting out here.
Simple.
You just take the audio file,
you create a PS enclosure object,
point it at the file,
and then add that to the entry.
Similarly,
if you have some kind of custom XML data,
it might be like metadata using the
Dublin Core namespace or some kind
of custom namespace that you made
up or something like iTunes data,
you just take that XML and
add it to the PS Published
entry using another accessor.
Finally, when you're all done,
when the feed's been assembled,
the entry's been added,
and the user goes and
hits that Publish button,
The agent kicks off,
reads the feed out of the database,
and then sends it off to the world.
We have a couple of different
mechanisms here for publishing,
different protocols.
First, we can directly assemble the
feed as XML data and upload it
to pretty much any web server.
We can use either the FTP protocol
or the WebDAV protocol,
for example, for iDisk-type servers.
We can also upload it similarly to
.mac in much the same way that iPhoto
uploads feeds for photocasting.
And we can use the Atom
publication protocol,
which is sort of the cousin of
the Atom syndication format.
It's a protocol that the same
working group is developing
for uploading entries,
feeds.
And that's supported by pretty
much all of the major blogging
and content management systems.
And lastly,
as demoed with the boothcasting demo,
we can use Bonjour to advertise the
feed and the Apache server that's
already on your machine to serve that
feed to machines on your local network,
or even beyond if you have a static
IP address and the other machines that
subscribe know what your address is.
Let's look at an example
of the code for doing this.
I'm going to go through pretty
much the same example that
I showed you in box form.
Just this time we're going to have some
nice comforting monos-based font for it.
So first we're going
to create some content.
We have some data that we
pull out of our NSTextView.
We create a PSContent object.
We init it with the data.
And we give it MIME type text HTML.
Now we create an entry.
We just initialize a PSPublished entry,
give it a title, and pass the content in.
We create the published feed.
Just init the published feed.
The protocol here,
we have a couple of constants
that you can use to indicate
which publishing protocol,
which of those nice icons in the
previous slide that you want to use.
There is a server information
dictionary that you pass in which
has key value pairs that indicate
protocol-specific information like
the URL of the server or the account
name that you're using for login,
things like that.
And you can also pass in an identifier.
This is the GUID, the universal ID that
your feed will acquire.
Usually you pass in nil and we'll
make up a unique ID for you.
Then finally, you take that feed and
you add your entry to it.
To publish that stuff out to the world,
you just call publish on the feed.
That's it.
That takes the content from the local
database and uploads it to the server.
This is an asynchronous operation,
so since obviously it's
a network transfer,
it might take a while.
You might not actually
be online at the moment.
The server might be down.
So you can use notifications to
find out when the information
actually gets published.
But after you publish an entry,
that's not really the end of the story.
So your UI will probably want to
show the user a list of the entries
that they previously published.
How do you do that?
Well, it's pretty easy.
Since PSPublishedFeed
is a subclass of PSFeed,
that means you get all the same
accessors that you had on PSFeed.
So you can call entries.
You can get the entire list of entries.
You can get entry with ID.
So if you create an entry
and you grab the entry's
ID accessor and store that away,
which is what the core data album
browser example that I showed you does,
the ID is just a short string.
And if you remember that ID,
you can go back later any time.
It's persistent.
So you can come back any time in
the future and ask the feed for the
entry with that ID and get it back.
So in particular to update an entry,
if the user finds a typo, they go back,
select the entry, edit the text,
hit Save.
First you get the entry back from the
feed by calling feed entryWithIdentifier
and the enter ID that you have.
Now you can call setTitle, setContent,
setEnclosures.
There's a bunch of accessors here
that you can use to update all
the information in that entry.
And then when you're done,
you just say feed publish.
And the feed will go and upload
either the entire feed or just
that one entry to the server,
depending on what protocol you're using.
Similarly,
you might want to remove an entry.
This is useful when you wake
up in the morning after a
drunken stupor remembering that,
oh yeah, you wrote that blog post
at 2:00 AM about your boss.
And easy.
You just call feed,
remove entry on that entry
after you get the entry back
with its unique identifier.
And then you call feed, publish,
and hopefully it gets up to the server
before your boss logs in in the morning.
I should clarify that this is--
you only need to delete entries
if the user actually really wants
that entry to go away forever.
The feeds will only show a list
of the last 20 entries or so.
You're not really responsible
for managing that.
We take care of maintaining the
feed at a fixed maximum size.
So you can keep all the old
entries there in the database.
We'll just put the latest end
of them in the feed for you.
So now onto where.
I showed you the nice icons and kind of
waved my hands a bit about the protocols.
Let's look at those in some more detail.
We have these four constants
that you pass in when you
create a PSPublished feed.
PSUploadPublishingProtocol,
.macPublishingProtocol,
AtomPublishingProtocol,
and BonjourPublishingProtocol.
PS upload publishing protocol
is really straightforward.
It's just a direct upload.
You can either use webdav,
in which case we use an http put
command to upload the contents,
or you can use ftp,
in which case we'll log in with ftp.
And pretty much any web server in
existence that you actually have
write access to can be talked to
using one of those two protocols.
So anywhere that you can put web content,
you can now put a feed.
The PS.Mac publishing
protocol is sort of similar.
It's specialized to talk to .Mac.
It uses your .Mac identity,
it gets your .Mac password
out of the keychain,
and will just upload the feed,
the individual entries of it, up to .Mac.
Atom Publishing Protocol needs
a little bit more explanation.
As I said, this is a kind of cousin of
the Atom syndication format.
The syndication format has
sort of gone golden master.
It's been released as an RFC.
The publishing protocol
is a little bit earlier.
It's still under development.
The current state of it is an internet
draft which gets updated periodically.
But in practice, it is fairly stable.
And the protocol has been adopted already
by most of the major entities in the
blogging and content management world.
I've got a list of them there.
So Leopard Server will support
the Atom Publishing Protocol,
Blogger, Blogspot, MovableType,
LiveJournal, TypePad, et cetera,
et cetera.
If you want to track the progress of this
protocol and look at the details of it,
you can use the URL there to look at
the different drafts going around.
So finally there's the Bonjour publishing
protocol which is sort of I guess
the Apache and Bonjour publishing
protocol which is used for
basically personal feed sharing.
The way it works is that the
agent uses Bonjour to advertise
the fact that you have a feed.
This is similar to the way that
Apache already advertises the fact
that you have web sharing turned
on and if you go into Safari and
look in the Bonjour column
there in the bookmarks view,
you can see a list of
the other web servers.
We use kind of a specialized
version of this to say,
hey, we are sharing feeds.
So another user, another client on the
local network can see this.
It can see the name of your feed,
its URL,
and then they can go and fetch it.
The request comes in from http.
The Apache server receives that request,
and through some fancy plumbing,
it gets redirected over to our agent,
which then gets the content out of the
PubSub database and sends it back as
XML data to the client that requests it.
And as I talked about during the demo,
Bonjour has this capability
that in addition to broadcasting
the existence of something,
you can broadcast metadata about it.
And a piece of metadata that we broadcast
with the feeds is the modification date.
And that information gets pushed out
and updated pretty much in real time.
Within a second or two,
if there's a lot of packet loss,
it might take five or 10 seconds.
But really quickly, it will get there,
which is much,
much better than the typical
kind of half-hour latency
that you get with RSS feeds,
where the agent or the client or
whatever sits there and polls the
server every once in a while saying,
is there anything new?
Is there anything new?
In this case,
the server will actually tell the
clients that there's new stuff.
So this enables some sort of interesting
new applications like the booth sharing,
where stuff just shows up in real time.
You could even imagine doing
a chat application with this.
Finally, if all those protocols aren't
enough and if we just weren't
imaginative enough to meet your needs,
you can take things in your own hands
and get access to the feed data yourself.
So I've got some examples here.
You can call data representation
of type on a PSPublished feed and
actually get the raw Atom data for
that feed or the raw RSS 2.0 data
and then put it wherever you want.
If you want to manipulate it a bit more,
you can call
XML representation on the feed.
And what we give you is
essentially a DOM tree.
It's this NSXML element of
the root entry of the feed.
And you can crawl through this tree,
look at the data in it,
maybe even manipulate it.
It's very easy then to convert it
into XML if that's what you want to
do after you're done changing it.
Similarly,
you can get the XML representation of
any individual entry if you want to
do stuff on an entry-by-entry basis.
So hopefully that's enough
flexibility to do really anything
that you can imagine with feeds.
So finally, a little bit about who.
In the case of some
of these applications,
like the small group publishing,
you might have information that
isn't world accessible information.
It might be your address
book you're publishing.
It might be confidential
company information.
So you really don't want to have
this usual model where you've got
a web server that's wide open to
the world and anybody can come
along and subscribe to your feed.
So we're going to give you
some means of access control.
Essentially, an ACL,
an access control list for
any feed that you publish.
The identities that will be the
items in the access control list
are identity services identities.
This is another new framework in Leopard.
There are going to be some sessions
about it during the conference.
The support for this kind of depends
on what protocol you're using just
by we're limited by what we can do.
So with the .mac publishing protocol,
if you're publishing
your feed up to .mac,
then you can use .mac
identities to specify who has
access to the feed or not.
If you're using the Atom publishing
protocol and you're publishing up to,
say, a Leopard server,
you can use any identities that are known
to directory services by both you and
that server to specify who has access.
And if you're using the
Bonjour publishing protocol,
pretty much you can use any sort
of identity that can use its
credentials to verify itself
to your local Apache server.
And I think that some of the
OS X server sessions are talking
more about those kind of things,
how those credentials work.
The API for this is even more
preliminary than the rest of it.
In fact,
it's not there at all on your seed.
We're working on designing
the API for that.
Okay, so what?
Here's the big conclusion.
You can write applications
that use a straightforward,
high-level API that's based on
widely adopted open standards,
i.e.
RSS, Atom, Atom publishing protocol, etc.
to publish, collaborate,
push and pull distributed data across the
internet or around your local network.
And that is PubSub.
So Mark Malone is your internet
partnership manager contact if you
want to talk about more uses for this.
We have set up an email address,
pubsubfeedback@group.apple.com
that you can send emails to
if you have feedback for us.
We can try to reply on
an individual basis.
It's not really an actual
discussion group mailing list,
but you can send us information that way.